[blog] Q1 Survey Results (#1398)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2023-03-02-q1-survey-results.md

---
layout: post
authors:
  - apasun
title: "OpenSearch Receives High Marks in the Quarterly Q1 Community Survey"
date: 2023-03-02 
categories:
- community

> 

Reviewer: @hdhalter - Please add the meta below: 

**meta_keywords:** OpenSearch NPS, OpenSearch net promoter score, OpenSearch user experience 
**meta_description:** OpenSearch receives high marks in its quarterly Q1 Community Survey, reporting a net promoter score of 57.8 and a UX health score of 77.2.

Author: Done.

Author: @pajuric - how do you enter an author bio?

Reviewer 2: Sure, I can do that.

Reviewer 2: Added in #1419

---
layout: post
authors:
  - apasun
title: "OpenSearch Project Q1 community survey results"
date: 2023-03-02 
categories:
- community
meta_keywords: OpenSearch NPS, OpenSearch net promoter score, OpenSearch user experience
meta_description: OpenSearch Project Q1 community survey results, reporting a net promoter score of 57.8 and a UX health score of 77.2.

> excerpt: "Thank you to the OpenSearch community members who responded to our Q1 community survey! Our first quarterly survey focused on understanding who our users are, what they use OpenSearch for, and establishing a baseline for how they feel about the current OpenSearch experience. We are thrilled to report a net promoter score (NPS) of **57.8** and a UX health score of **77.2** with **97** community members taking part in the survey."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Thank you to the OpenSearch community members who responded to our Q1 community survey! Our first quarterly survey focused on understanding who our users are, what they use OpenSearch for, and establishing a baseline for how they feel about the current OpenSearch experience. We are thrilled to report a net promoter score (NPS) of **57.8** and a UX health score of **77.2**, with **97** community members taking part in the survey."
```

> excerpt: "Thank you to the OpenSearch community members who responded to our Q1 community survey! Our first quarterly survey focused on understanding who our users are, what they use OpenSearch for, and establishing a baseline for how they feel about the current user experience on OpenSearch. We are thrilled to report a net promoter score (NPS) of **57.8** and a UX health score of **77.2** with **97** community members taking part in the survey."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Thank you to the OpenSearch community members who responded to our Q1 community survey! Our first quarterly survey focused on understanding who our users are, what they use OpenSearch for, and establishing a baseline for how they feel about the current OpenSearch user experience. We are thrilled to report a net promoter score (NPS) of **57.8** and a UX health score of **77.2**, with **97** community members taking part in the survey."
```

---

Thank you to the OpenSearch community members who responded to our Q1 community survey! Our first quarterly survey focused on understanding who our users are, what they use OpenSearch for, and establishing a baseline for how they feel about the current OpenSearch user experience. We are thrilled to report a net promoter score (NPS) of **57.8** and a UX health score of **77.2**, with **97** community members taking part in the survey. 

> We’ve recently launched a research program in order to get a holistic view of of the OpenSearch user experience. The program is designed to evaluate a user’s journey comprehensively and using various research methodologies, including a quarterly survey. In addition to quarterly surveys, we also use "deep dives," which are qualitative research studies that include conversations with users to understand their use cases, requirements, and OpenSearch experience. The quarterly surveys will ask community members to provide feedback on new features, existing OpenSearch experiences, and more. This will help us prioritize improvements to best serve the community. This will help us prioritize improvements to best serve the community. After our Q2 survey is released this month, you will be able to access it at [OpenSearch.org](http://opensearch.org/), as shown in the following image:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We’ve recently launched a research program in order to get a holistic view of the OpenSearch user experience. The program is designed to evaluate a user’s journey comprehensively using various research methodologies, including a quarterly survey. In addition to quarterly surveys, we also use "deep dives," which are qualitative research studies that include conversations with users to understand their use cases, requirements, and OpenSearch experience. The quarterly surveys will ask community members to provide feedback on new features, existing OpenSearch experiences, and more. This will help us prioritize improvements to best serve the community. After our Q2 survey is released this month, you will be able to access it at [OpenSearch.org](http://opensearch.org/), as shown in the following image.
```

---
layout: post
authors:
  - apasun

> title: "OpenSearch receives high marks in the Q1 Community Survey"

Reviewer 3: As I noted in my last review, this title feels a bit self-promoting, given that it's our own survey. Couldn't the title just be "OpenSearch Project Q1 community survey results" or "Q1 community survey results provide key findings" or something similar?

> title: "OpenSearch receives high marks in the Q1 Community Survey"

Author: I'm ok with that.

![OpenSearch.org website](../assets/media/blog-images/2023-03-02-q1-survey-results/q1-survey-results.png)

[Image: survey.png]

Here are some key insights from the Q1 survey:

* We obtained our first NPS and UX health scores and will use these as a baseline against which to compare future results.
* Previously, we were unsure about the split between *search* and *analytics* use cases and were curious whether there was an overlap in the way the community was using OpenSearch. Around 1/3 (one-third) of the Q1 survey sample indicated that they use OpenSearch as *both a search and analytics solution*.  
* Users identified with four roles in OpenSearch: 

>   - _Infrastructure Set Up_ -- Responsible for deploying OpenSearch, for allocation of resources, responsible for allocation of initial resources, and any action that impacts the billing and usage or resources

Author: I pulled this statement from the survey: "... and any action that impacts the billing and usage or resources."  Is this correct? Or should it be "..._of_ resources."? I can't tag Aparna, so I'll follow up with her. @pajuric - please comment if you know. Thanks.

>   - _Infrastructure Set Up_ -- Responsible for deploying OpenSearch, for allocation of resources, responsible for allocation of initial resources, and any action that impacts the billing and usage or resources

Reviewer 3: Updated suggestion

  - _OpenSearch Admin_ -- Responsible for asset and user management
  - _Dashboard Creator or Data Producer_ -- Responsible for preparing data or dashboards for their own use or end user consumption
  - _Dashboard or Data Consumer_ -- Responsible for consuming data or dashboards
  

> * While users do not use these labels to self-identify, the motivations described in the survey for each of these roles resonated with them.

Author: Removed.

* 48.8%, or almost half of the community members who took the survey, self-identified as being in an *administrative* role, and almost half of the sample self-identified with all 4 roles.
* 34.1% self-identified as being in an *infrastructure setup* role. 

> Based on these insights, we concluded that close to half of our users have complex needs that span across all four roles, from *infrastructure setup* to *administrative* to *producer* to *consumer*.  Our offerings, therefore, should focus on providing consistent end-to-end workflows and transitions that enable users to perform tasks seamlessly. This finding is also a good indication of the sample who accessed the survey on  OpenSearch.org. In future quarters we intend to expand recruitment for the quarterly survey to the OpenSearch Dashboards interface as well. This will help us obtain feedback from Dashboards users, who are typically both *producers* and *consumers*.

Author: This finding is also a good indication of the sample who accessed the survey on OpenSearch.org, that is, respondents were primarily in _Infrastructure Setup_ or _Admin_ roles.

---
layout: post
authors:
  - apasun
title: "OpenSearch Receives High Marks in the Quarterly Q1 Community Survey"
date: 2023-03-02 
categories:
- community
meta_keywords: OpenSearch NPS, OpenSearch net promoter score, OpenSearch user experience

> meta_description: OpenSearch receives high marks in its quarterly Q1 Community Survey, reporting a net promoter score of 57.8 and a UX health score of 77.2.

Reviewer: I'm good with the change. Thanks, Nate.

We’ve recently launched a research program to get a holistic view of of our users’ experience. The program is designed to evaluate a user’s journey comprehensively, and amongst various research methodologies, includes a quarterly survey. In addition to quarterly surveys, the team also utilizes deep-dives, which are qualitative research studies that include conversations with users to understand their use cases, requirements, and OpenSearch experience. The surveys, going live once a quarter, will ask our community members to provide feedback on new features, existing experiences on OpenSearch, and more. This will help the OpenSearch team prioritize improvements to best serve the community. For the deep-dives, we invite community members who are willing to help us understand their use case, to talk to members of the OpenSearch team. After our Q2-2023 survey is live in March, you can access it from the landing page of [OpenSearch.org](http://opensearch.org/):

![OpenSearch.org website](../assets/media/blog-images/2023-03-02-q1-survey-results/q1-survey-results.png)

[Image: survey.png]

Here are some key insights from the Q1 survey:

> * We obtained our first NPS and UX health score, and will use these as a baseline to compare against results in future quarters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* We obtained our first NPS and UX health scores and will use these as a baseline against which to compare future results.
```

> * Previously, we were unsure about the split of *search* and *analytics* use cases and were curious if there was an overlap in the way users were utilizing OpenSearch. Around 1/3 (one-third) of the sample that took the survey in Q1 indicated that they used OpenSearch as *both a search and analytics solution*. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, we were unsure about the split between *search* and *analytics* use cases and were curious whether there was an overlap in the way the community was using OpenSearch. Around 1/3 (one-third) of the Q1 survey sample indicated that they use OpenSearch as *both a search and analytics solution*. 
```

* Users identified with four roles in OpenSearch: 

>   - _Infrastructure Set Up_ - responsible for deploying OpenSearch, for allocation of resources, responsible for allocation of initial resources, and any action that impacts the billing and usage or resources

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - _Infrastructure Setup_ -- Responsible for deploying OpenSearch, allocation of initial resources, and any action that impacts billing, usage, or resources
```

  - _OpenSearch Admin_ - responsible for asset and user management on OpenSearch
  - _Dashboard Creator or Data Producer_ - responsible for preparing data or dashboards for their own use or end user consumption

>   - _Dashboard or Data Consumer_ - responsible for consuming data or dashboards

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - _Dashboard or Data Consumer_ -- Responsible for consuming data or dashboards
```

> * While users do not use the above labels to self-identify, the motivations described in the survey for each of these roles resonated with them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* While users do not use these labels to self-identify, the motivations described in the survey for each of these roles resonated with them.
```

> * 48.8%, or almost half of the community members who took the survey, self-identified themselves to be in an *administrative* role and almost half of the sample associated with all four roles.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* 48.8%, or almost half of the community members who took the survey, self-identified as being in an *administrative* role, and almost half of the sample self-identified with all 4 roles.
```

Reviewer 3: Is "or almost half of the community members who took the survey" redundant, given that we provide the percentage?

Author: Not sure. Either there is overlap or no one self-identified as being as being any of the other roles exclusively.

Reviewer 3: I just meant that the "or almost" phrase essentially says what "48.8%" says, but there's value in including it for emphasis, so let's leave as is.

* 34.1% self-identified themselves to be in an *infrastructure setup* role. 

> Based on these insights, we concluded that close to half of our users have complex needs that span across all four roles, from *infrastructure setup* to *administrative* to *producer* to *consumer*.  Our offerings, therefore, should focus on providing consistent end-to-end workflows and transitions that enable users perform tasks seamlessly. This finding is also a good indication of the sample who accessed the survey on the OpenSearch website. In future quarters we intend to expand recruitment for the quarterly survey to the dashboard interface as well. This will help the OpenSearch team obtain feedback from dashboard users who are typically both *producers* and *consumers*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Based on these insights, we concluded that close to half of our users have complex needs that span across all four roles, from *infrastructure setup* to *administrative* to *producer* to *consumer*. Our offerings, therefore, should focus on providing consistent end-to-end workflows and transitions that enable users to perform tasks seamlessly. This finding is also a good indication of the sample who accessed the survey on the OpenSearch website. In future quarters we intend to expand recruitment for the quarterly survey to the OpenSearch Dashboards interface as well. This will help us obtain feedback from Dashboards users, who are typically both *producers* and *consumers*.
```

Reviewer 3: Confirm that my changes to "OpenSearch Dashboards" and "Dashboards" are what we meant. Additionally, the sentence "This finding is also a good indication of the sample who accessed the survey on the OpenSearch website" is slightly vague. Can we clarify our meaning a bit? And rather than "the OpenSearch website", would just "OpenSearch.org" suffice?

Author: "Dashboards" is correct. We are trying to say that because we launched this survey from OpenSearch.org, we may be getting a different sample of respondents versus if the users were accessing it from within Dashboards. Let me think about it.

 
In Q2 we want to get a deeper understanding of ways to improve user experience on OpenSearch. We want to understand what blockers our users face when setting up OpenSearch for themselves or others. The survey will allow users to provide feedback based on their self-selected roles. We also want to understand what blockers users have when dashboards are set up, shared, and consumed. 

Check out the [OpenSearch website](https://opensearch.org/) or [forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/) in March and take part in our quarterly Q2 community survey. If you are interested in participating in a deep-dive study, you’ll have the opportunity at the end of the survey to provide information on how we can reach you. As always, we welcome all community members to attend our bi-weekly [community meet-ups](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/opensearch-community-meeting-2023-0328/12531) where information on ongoing research studies are regularly announced. 
 

> We thank you for reading, and thanks for supporting OpenSearch!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We thank you for reading and for supporting OpenSearch!
```

> The OpenSearch UX Team

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 3: We are speaking in one voice as the OpenSearch Project—not as a UX team that is separate from the community.
